CHAPTER 6

Testing ASP.NET Core Applications

In this chapter, I demonstrate how to unit test ASP.NET Core applications. 
Unit testing is a form of testing in which individual components are isolated 
from the rest of the application so their behavior can be thoroughly validated. 
ASP.NET Core has been designed to make it easy to create unit tests, and there 
is support for a wide range of unit testing frameworks. I show you how to set 
up a unit test project and describe the process for writing and running tests. 
Table 6-1 summarizes the chapter.

DECIDING WHETHER TO UNIT TEST

Being able to easily perform unit testing is one of the benefits of using 
ASP.NET Core, but it isn’t for everyone, and I have no intention 
of pretending otherwise.

I like unit testing, and I use it in my own projects, but not all of them and 
not as consistently as you might expect. I tend to focus on writing unit tests 
for features and functions that I know will be hard to write and likely will 
be the source of bugs in deployment. In these situations, unit testing helps 
structure my thoughts about how to best implement what I need. I find that 
just thinking about what I need to test helps produce ideas about potential 
problems, and that’s before I start dealing with actual bugs and defects.

That said, unit testing is a tool and not a religion, and only you know how 
much testing you require. If you don’t find unit testing useful or if you have 
a different methodology that suits you better, then don’t feel you need to unit 
test just because it is fashionable. (However, if you don’t have a better
methodology and you are not testing at all, then you are probably letting 
users find your bugs, which is rarely ideal. You don’t have to unit test, 
but you really should consider doing some testing of some kind.)

If you have not encountered unit testing before, then I encourage you to give 
it a try to see how it works. If you are not a fan of unit testing, then you 
can skip this chapter and move on to Chapter 7, where I start to build 
a more realistic ASP.NET Core application.