CHAPTER 2

Getting Started

The best way to appreciate a software development framework is to jump 
right in and use it. In this chapter, I explain how to prepare for 
ASP.NET Core development and how to create and run an ASP.NET Core
application.

UPDATES TO THIS BOOK

Microsoft has an active development schedule for .NET and ASP.NET Core, 
which means that there may be new releases available by the time you read 
this book. It doesn’t seem fair to expect readers to buy a new book every 
few months, especially since most changes are relatively minor. Instead, 
I will post free updates to the GitHub repository for this book 
(https://github.com/apress/pro-asp.net-core-6) for breaking changes.

This kind of update is an ongoing experiment for me (and for Apress), 
and it continues to evolve—not least because I don’t know what the future 
major releases of ASP.NET Core will contain—but the goal is
to extend the life of this book by supplementing the examples it contains.

I am not making any promises about what the updates will be like, what 
form they will take, or how long I will produce them before folding them 
into a new edition of this book. Please keep an open mind and check 
the repository for this book when new ASP.NET Core versions are released. 
If you have ideas about how the updates could be improved, then email 
me at adam@adam-freeman.com and let me know.

Choosing a Code Editor

Microsoft provides a choice of tools for ASP.NET Core development: 
Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code. Visual Studio is the traditional 
development environment for .NET applications, and it offers an enormous
range of tools and features for developing all sorts of applications. 
But it can be resource-hungry and slow, and some of the features are 
so determined to be helpful they get in the way of development.

Visual Studio Code is a lightweight alternative that doesn’t have 
the bells and whistles of Visual Studio but is perfectly capable 
of handling ASP.NET Core development.

All the examples in this book include instructions for both editors, 
and both Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code can be used without charge, 
so you can use whichever suits your development style.