The result is that the Home controller defines a single action, named Index. 
These changes don’t produce a dramatic effect, but they make for a nice 
demonstration. I have changed the method named Index so that it returns 
the string Hello World. Using the PowerShell prompt, run the dotnet run command 
in the FirstProject folder again and use the browser to request http://localhost:5000. 
The configuration of the project created by the template in Listing 2-6 means 
the HTTP request will be processed by the Index action defined by the Home 
controller. Put another way, the request will be processed by the Index 
method defined by the HomeController class. The string produced by the Index 
method is used as the response to the browser’s HTTP request, as shown in Figure 2-15.

Figure 2-15. The output from the action method

Understanding Routes

The ASP.NET Core routing system is responsible for selecting the endpoint that 
will handle an HTTP request. A route is a rule that is used to decide how 
a request is handled. When the project was created, a default rule
was created to get started. You can request any of the following URLs, 
and they will be dispatched to the Index action defined by the Home controller:

/
/Home
/Home/Index

So, when a browser requests http://yoursite/ or http://yoursite/Home, it gets 
back the output from HomeController’s Index method. You can try this yourself 
by changing the URL in the browser. At the moment, it will be http://localhost:5000/, 
except that the port part may be different if you are using Visual Studio. 
If you append /Home or /Home/Index to the URL and press Return, you will see 
the same Hello World result from the application.

Understanding HTML Rendering

The output from the previous example wasn’t HTML—it was just the string 
Hello World. To produce an HTML response to a browser request, I need a view, 
which tells ASP.NET Core how to process the result produced by the Index 
method into an HTML response that can be sent to the browser.

Creating and Rendering a View

The first thing I need to do is modify my Index action method, as shown 
in Listing 2-7. The changes are shown in bold, which is a convention 
I follow throughout this book to make the examples easier to follow.