The type of the view model is specified using the @model expression, 
with a lowercase m. The view model value is included in the HTML output 
using the @Model expression, with an uppercase M. (It can be difficult at
first to remember which is lowercase and which is uppercase, but it 
soon becomes second nature.)

When the view is rendered, the view model data provided by the action 
method is inserted into the HTML response. Use Control+C to stop ASP.NET Core 
and use the dotnet run command to build and start it again. Use a browser 
to request http://localhost:5000, and you will see the output shown 
in Figure 2-19 (although you may see the morning greeting if you are 
following this example before midday).

Figure 2-19. Generating dynamic content

Putting the Pieces Together

It is a simple result, but this example reveals all the building blocks 
you need to create a simple ASP.NET Core web application and to generate 
a dynamic response. The ASP.NET Core platform receives an HTTP request 
and uses the routing system to match the request URL to an endpoint. 
The endpoint, in this case, is the Index action method defined by the 
Home controller. The method is invoked and produces a ViewResult
object that contains the name of a view and a view model object. 
The Razor view engine locates and processes the view, evaluating 
the @Model expression to insert the data provided by the action method 
into the response, which is returned to the browser and displayed 
to the user. There are, of course, many other features available, 
but this is the essence of ASP.NET Core, and it is worth bearing 
this simple sequence in mind as you read the rest of the book.

Summary

In this chapter, I explained how to get set up for ASP.NET Core development 
by installing Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code and the .NET Core SDK. 
I showed you how to create a simple project and briefly explained 
how the endpoint, the view, and the URL routing system work together. 
In the next chapter, I show you how to create a simple data-entry application.