If you still have problems, then download the project for the chapter 
you are reading from the book’s GitHub repository, 
https://github.com/apress/pro-asp.net-core-6,
and compare it to your project. I create the code for the GitHub repository 
by working through each chapter, so you should have the same
files with the same contents in your project.

If you still can’t get the examples working, then you can contact me 
at adam@adam-freeman.com for help. Please make it clear in your email which 
book you are reading and which chapter/example is causing the problem. 
Please remember that I get a lot of emails and that I may not respond immediately.

What If I Find an Error in the Book?

You can report errors to me by email at adam@adam-freeman.com, although I ask 
that you first check the errata/corrections list for this book, which you 
can find in the book’s GitHub repository at https://github.com/apress/pro-asp.net-core-6,
in case it has already been reported.

I add errors that are likely to cause confusion to readers, especially problems 
with example code, to the errata/corrections file on the GitHub repository, 
with a grateful acknowledgment to the first reader who reported them. 
I keep a list of less serious issues, which usually means errors in the text surrounding
examples, and I fix them when I write a new edition.

ERRATA BOUNTY

Apress has agreed to give a free ebook to readers who are the first to report 
errors that make it onto the GitHub errata list for this book. Readers can select 
any Apress ebook available through Springerlink. com, not just my books.

This is an entirely discretional and experimental program. Discretional means 
that only I decide which errors are listed in the errata and which reader is 
the first to make a report. Experimental means Apress may decide not to give 
away any more books at any time for any reason. There are no appeals, and this
is not a promise or a contract or any kind of formal offer or competition. 
Or, put another way, this is a nice and informal way to say thank you and 
to encourage readers to report mistakes that I have missed when writing this book.

What Does This Book Cover?

I have tried to cover the features that will be required by most ASP.NET Core 
projects. This book is split into four parts, each of which covers a set 
of related topics.

Part 1: Introducing ASP.NET Core

This part of the book—which includes this chapter—introduces ASP.NET Core. 
In addition to setting up your development environment and creating your first 
application, you’ll learn about the most important C# features for ASP.NET Core 
development and how to use the ASP.NET Core development tools. But most of
Part 1 is given over to the development of a project called SportsStore, through 
which I show you a realistic development process from inception to deployment, 
touching on all the main features of ASP.NET Core and showing how they fit 
together—something that can be lost in the deep-dive chapters in the rest 
of the book.