Razor Pages can be used alongside the MVC Framework, which is how I tend 
to use them. I write the main parts of the application using the MVC Framework 
and use Razor Pages for the secondary features, such as administration 
and reporting tools. You can see this approach in Chapters 7–11, where I develop a
realistic ASP.NET Core application called SportsStore.

Understanding Blazor

The rise of JavaScript client-side frameworks can be a barrier for C# developers, 
who must learn a different— and somewhat idiosyncratic—programming language. 
I have come to love JavaScript, which is as fluid and expressive as C#. 
But it takes time and commitment to become proficient in a new programming language,
especially one that has fundamental differences from C#.

Blazor attempts to bridge this gap by allowing C# to be used to write client-side 
applications. There are two versions of Blazor: Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly. 
Blazor Server is a stable and supported part of ASP.NET Core, and it works by using 
a persistent HTTP connection to the ASP.NET Core server, where the application’s 
C# code is executed. Blazor WebAssembly is an experimental release that goes one 
step further and executes the application’s C# code in the browser. Neither version 
of Blazor is suited for all situations, as I explain in Chapter 33, but they both 
give a sense of direction for the future of ASP.NET Core development.

Understanding the Utility Frameworks

Two frameworks are closely associated with ASP.NET Core but are not used directly 
to generate HTML content or data. Entity Framework Core is Microsoft’s object-relational 
mapping (ORM) framework, which represents data stored in a relational database 
as .NET objects. Entity Framework Core can be used in any .NET application, 
and it is commonly used to access databases in ASP.NET Core applications.

ASP.NET Core Identity is Microsoft’s authentication and authorization framework, 
and it is used to validate user credentials in ASP.NET Core applications 
and restrict access to application features.

I describe only the basic features of both frameworks in this book, focusing 
on the capabilities required by most ASP.NET Core applications. But these are 
both complex frameworks that are too large to describe in
detail in what is already a large book about ASP.NET Core.

TOPICS FOR FUTURE EDITIONS

I don’t have space in this book to cover every ASP.NET Core, Entity Framework Core, 
and ASP.NET Core Identity feature, so I have focused on those aspects that most 
projects require. If there are topics you think I should include in the next 
edition or in new deep-dive books, then please send me your suggestions at 
adam@adam-freeman.com.

Understanding the ASP.NET Core Platform

The ASP.NET Core platform contains the low-level features required to receive 
and process HTTP requests and create responses. There is an integrated HTTP server, 
a system of middleware components to handle requests, and core features that 
the application frameworks depend on, such as URL routing and the Razor
view engine.

Most of your development time will be spent with the application frameworks, 
but effective ASP.NET Core use requires an understanding of the powerful capabilities 
that the platform provides, without which the higher-level frameworks could not function. 
I demonstrate how the ASP.NET Core platform works in detail in Part 2 of this 
book and explain how the features it provides underpin every aspect of ASP.NET Core
development.