I use the command-line tools throughout this book because they are simple 
and concise. The Visual Studio integrated support is awkward and makes 
it easy to unintentionally create a project with the wrong configuration, 
as the volume of emails from confused readers of earlier editions of this 
book has demonstrated.

Tip
You can download the example project for this chapter — and for all the other 
chapters in this book—from https://github.com/apress/pro-asp.net-core-6. 
See Chapter 1 for how to get help if you have problems running the examples.

Creating a Project Using the Command Line

The dotnet command provides access to the .NET command-line features. The dotnet 
new command is used to create a new project, configuration file, or solution file. 
To see the list of templates available for creating new items, open a PowerShell 
command prompt and run the command shown in Listing 4-1.

Listing 4-1. Listing the .NET Templates

dotnet new --list

Each template has a short name that makes it easier to use. There are many 
templates available, but Table 4-2 describes the ones that are most useful 
for creating ASP.NET Core projects.

Table 4-2. Useful ASP.NET Core Project Templates

Name			Description

web				This template creates a project that is set up with the minimum code 
				and content required for ASP.NET Core development. This is the template 
				I use for most of the chapters in this book.

mvc				This template creates an ASP.NET Core project configured to use the MVC 
				Framework.

webapp			This template creates an ASP.NET Core project configured to use Razor Pages.

blazorserver	This template creates an ASP.NET Core project configured to use Blazor Server.

angular			This template creates an ASP.NET Core project that contains client-side
				features using the Angular JavaScript framework.

react			This template creates an ASP.NET Core project that contains client-side 
				features using the React JavaScript framework.

reactredux		This template creates an ASP.NET Core project that contains client-side 
				features using the React JavaScript framework and the popular Redux library.

There are also templates that create commonly required files used to configure projects, 
as described in Table 4-3.