Part 2: The ASP.NET Core Platform

The chapters in this part of the book describe the key features of 
the ASP.NET Core platform. I explain how HTTP requests are processed, 
how to create and use middleware components, how to create routes, how
to define and consume services, and how to work with Entity Framework Core. 
These chapters explain the foundations of ASP.NET Core, and understanding 
them is essential for effective ASP.NET Core development.

Part 3: ASP.NET Core Applications

The chapters in this part of the book explain how to create different 
types of applications, including RESTful web services and HTML applications 
using controllers and Razor Pages. These chapters also describe the
features that make it easy to generate HTML, including the views, 
view components, and tag helpers.

Part 4: Advanced ASP.NET Core Features

The final part of the book explains how to create applications using 
Blazor Server, how to use the experimental Blazor WebAssembly, and how 
to authenticate users and authorize access using ASP.NET Core Identity.

What Doesn’t This Book Cover?

This book doesn’t cover basic web development topics, such as HTML and CSS, 
and doesn’t teach basic C# (although Chapter 5 does describe C# features useful 
for ASP.NET Core development that may not be familiar to developers using 
older versions of .NET).

As much as I like to dive into the details in my books, not every ASP.NET Core 
feature is useful in mainstream development, and I have to keep my books 
to a printable size. When I decide to omit a feature, it is because I don’t 
think it is important or because the same outcome can be achieved using 
a technique that I do cover.

As noted earlier, I have not described the ASP.NET Core support for SignalR 
and gRPC, and I note other features in later chapters that I don’t describe, 
either because they are not broadly applicable or because there are better 
alternatives available. In each case, I explain why I have omitted 
a description and provide a reference to the Microsoft documentation 
for that topic.

How Do I Contact the Author?

You can email me at adam@adam-freeman.com. It has been a few years since 
I first published an email address in my books. I wasn’t entirely sure that 
it was a good idea, but I am glad that I did it. I have received
emails from around the world, from readers working or studying in every industry, 
and—for the most part anyway—the emails are positive, polite, and 
a pleasure to receive.

I try to reply promptly, but I get a lot of email, and sometimes I get a backlog, 
especially when I have my head down trying to finish writing a book. I always 
try to help readers who are stuck with an example in the book, although 
I ask that you follow the steps described earlier in this chapter before 
contacting me.

While I welcome reader emails, there are some common questions for which 
the answers will always be no. I am afraid that I won’t write the code for your 
new startup, help you with your college assignment, get involved in 
your development team’s design dispute, or teach you how to program.